<html>
  <head></head>
  <title>parallax</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="parallax.css" />
  
  <body>
    <section class="pimg">
      <div class="ptext">
        <span class="textbg">PARALLAX WEBSITE</span>
      </div>
    </section>
    <section class="pune pune-light">
      <h1>पुणे तिथे काय उणे</h1>
      <div class="info1">
        <p>
          Pune, city, west-central Maharashtra state, western India, at the
          junction of the Mula and Mutha rivers. Called “Queen of the Deccan,”
          Pune is the cultural capital of the Maratha peoples. The city first
          gained importance as the capital of the Bhonsle Marathas in the 17th
          century. It was temporarily captured by the Mughals but again served
          as the official Maratha capital from 1714 until its fall to the
          British in 1817. It was the seasonal capital of the Bombay Presidency
          and is now a popular tourist resort, offering cool weather, historic
          and religious monuments, museums, parks, hotels, and cultural
          attractions. The region surrounding Pune includes the Sahyadri Hills,
          the Balaghat Range (north), and the Mahadeo Hills (south), which
          enclose the northern Bhima River valley. Chief crops are jowar (grain
          sorghum), bajra (pearl millet), sugarcane, and rice. Most of the
          important religious, historical, and tourist attractions of the region
          are located in the Sahyadri Hills. Some of the famous hill forts of
          the Marathas, such as Sinhgad, are now resorts. The important
          religious centres include Bhimashankar, site of a Jyotirlinga shrine;
          Dehu, birthplace of the Marathi poet-saint Tukaram; Alandi, home of
          Jnaneshvara (Jnanadeva), author of a well-known commentary on the
          Bhagavadgita, a Hindu scripture; and Karli, site of the famous
          Theravada Buddhist Karle (or Karla) and Bhaja cave complexes.
        </p>
      </div>
    </section>



    <section class="parvati">
     

      <div class="text1">

        <h2 class="text2">PARVATI</h2>
<p>

        Parvati Hill is a hillock located in the city of Pune, India. It is one
        of the oldest hills in Pune, with a rich history and cultural
        significance. The hill is named after the Hindu goddess Parvati, who is
        considered to be the goddess of power and fertility. The hill has been
        an important site for Hindu worship for many centuries. There are
        several ancient temples located on the hill, including the Parvati
        Temple, which is said to have been built in the 17th century. The temple
        is dedicated to the goddess Parvati and her consort, Lord Shiva. During
        the reign of the Maratha Empire in the 17th and 18th centuries, the hill
        was used as a strategic fortification. The Maratha leader, Shivaji, used
        the hill as a base for his army and built several military structures on
        its slopes. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the hill became a
        popular destination for British colonial officials and wealthy Indian
        families, who built luxurious bungalows on its slopes. Today, Parvati
        Hill is a popular tourist destination, attracting visitors from all over
        the world who come to see its historical temples and enjoy its scenic
        views. The hill is also home to several residential neighborhoods and is
        considered one of the most desirable places to live in Pune. In
        conclusion, Parvati Hill is a significant cultural and historical site
        in Pune, with a rich heritage that has been shaped by centuries of
        worship, military activity, and residential development.
</p>  
    </div>
    </section>
    <section class="sarasbaug">
      <div class="text1">
      
        <h3 class="text2">
            SARASBAUG
 </h3>
 <p>
Saras Baug is one of the major tourist attractions of Pune, India. It is a
massive garden covering an area of around 25 acres, filled with magnificent
greenery and a serene atmosphere. It got its name from the ‘Sarus’ cranes,
frequently seen within the bounds of this beautiful garden. The place is not
just popular among tourists but also a favourite spot for the locals. Apart from
its natural elegance, Saras Baug in Pune is known for its deep history. The
Saras Baug area used to be occupied by a small lake, which eventually dried out
and was developed into a garden in the 20th century. The Ganesh Temple within
the garden complex, known as Talyatla Ganapati, was built under the orders of
Nanasaheb Peshwe in the mid-18th century. The construction of the temple began
in 1750 and took 34 years to complete. It used to be the secret meeting point of
the Marathas, where they discussed military tactics during that era.

 </p>
      </div>
    </section>
    <section class="wada">
      <div class="text1">
        <h4 class="text2">

SHANIWAR WADA

        </h4>
        <p>

            Shaniwar Wada a 13 storey palace of Peshwas was built by Bajirao-I, in the year
1736.It was head quarter of the Peshwas and it symbolizes Pune's culture.The
structure was built giving security the highest priority. The main entrance is
known as Delhi Darwaja & others have names like Ganesh, Mastani, Jambhal,
Khidki. The statue of Bajirao-i on horse in front of Shniwarwada. In side one
can see Ganesh Mahal, Rang Mahal, Aarsa Mahal, Hasti_Dant Mahal, Diwan Khana and
fountain. A light and music show is conducted every day showing history of
Peshwas. The palace was the seat of Peshwa power and later was destroyed by a
fire in 1828. All that remails are the walls that fortified this palace, with
sturdy doors, studded with spikers for added protection

        </p>
    </section>
   
    <section class="hehe">
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
